---
title: YC W13
author: Etienne Millon
tags: yc, cloverfeed
---

Some context: Y Combinator is a seed accelerator for startups located in San 
Francisco Bay Area. Put simply, the Bay Area is arguably the best place to 
start a technology startup (because of the easy access to venture capitalist 
money), and YC is the best accelerator there.

Since 2010, I have been working on and off with my friend [Gabriel Synnaeve] on
a product that we first wanted to have for ourselves. The core observation is 
that we receive a lot of data everyday from numerous sources, and a sizable 
chunk of it is not directly relevant to you. So we set off to aggregate these
"feeds" (starting by hacker news) and sort them according to how likely we were
going to read them, at a given time of the day. Our pitch became the following:

> [Cloverfeed] is a website and a mobile application to rank and filter entries
> from all your feeds: RSS, Facebook, Twitter, social news… It's like a spam
> filter and "priority inbox" for all your notifications. With this service, we
> want to empower our users to be more efficient reading their news feeds,
> starting with ourselves.

Doing this would be nice, but was a lot of work. We were both preparing our PhD
and unwilling to jump the boat and work on this full-time, so the idea cooked a
few years.

In August 2012, we saw the usual "apply for YC" announce  on [Hacker News] and
decided to apply. It would mean moving to California in January but by then we
would both have graduated and officially on the job market. The perfect time to
start a company.

Getting into YC is a two-step process. First, you have to fill an application
form that explains who you are, what you are going to work on, and why you will
succeed. Then, you are invited to present your project at Y Combinator
headquarters in California. If the interview goes well, they invest seed money 
and you pack your bags for three intensive months [at YC] to focus on your 
product.

### The application

[Here][YC App] is our application for YC W13, with some parts redacted.

Due to the fact that startups are hard (not only technically but all accross 
the board), the team is central factor of failure and success in startups. And,
indeed, YC focuses a lot on it. Two/three persons are considered the best: solo
founding is [harder][PG Startup Mistakes] too many persons mean that the 
probability to have a conflict between the founders is higher.

Because finding a co-founder is so important, it is a problem in iteself for
some people, and the application is the first place where YC partners will be 
able to assess this. We think that for us, though, it is not a problem as we 
have known been friends for quite a long time and we have worked together (at 
school and as freelances) already. Still, conveying that takes some work.

The other important point is to show that you're working on an interesting
problem, i.e. one that is [desirable, buildable and profitable][Bruce Sterling
NEXT13]. Desirable means that the problem exists. Buildable means that the ones
that are affected by the problem can become your clients. Profitable means that
you will be able to pay your bills with this problem.

So we decided that it was the right time to scratch our itch, we initialized a 
git repo for our prototype, and started hacking. We answered the questions of 
the applications and recorded the ["team intro" video][Application Video] one 
night at Gabriel's place (around Belgium beers). Our goal was to have an MVP by 
December, between the interview and YC itself. We used the following stack:

  - web backend: pyramid
  - ORM: sqlalchemy, alembic
  - DB: postgresql, sqlite
  - frontend: bootstrap, deform
  - queueing: celery, rabbitmq
  - ML backend: clojure, tika, python, gensim
  - infrastructure: EC2

Mostly things we were comfortable with, but assembling stuff together is always
challenging. :)

### The interview

### The product

Here is what the home looks like

![Cloverfeed inbox, sorted]

and here what it would look if unsorted
for this user

![Cloverfeed inbox, unsorted]

### The future

[Gabriel Synnaeve]: http://snippyhollow.github.io/
[Cloverfeed]: http://cloverfeed.com/
[Hacker News]: http://news.ycombinator.com/
[at YC]: http://ycombinator.com/atyc.html
[YC App]: yc/app.html
[PG Startup Mistakes]: http://www.paulgraham.com/startupmistakes.html
[Bruce Sterling NEXT13]: http://nearfuturelaboratory.com/2011/11/13/weekending-11132011/
[Application Video]: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FsIvR_lqs1c
[Cloverfeed inbox, sorted]: http://i.imgur.com/Q9tVx.png
[Cloverfeed inbox, unsorted]: http://i.imgur.com/uHJda.png
